.specify/extensions/prompts/speckit.tasks.prompt.ext.md, before:

You **MUST** adhere to the following mandatory requirements when generating development tasks.

**Workflow context:**

- **Input:** `plan.md` (implementation plan)
- **Output:** `tasks.md` (actionable task list)
- **Next phase:** Implementation (`/speckit.implement`)

**Base requirements:** Follow all rules in [copilot-instructions.md](/.github/copilot-instructions.md), particularly:

- Repository Tooling
- Test-Driven Development
- Quality Gates

## Show & Tell Sections (Mandatory)

Each phase and user story in `tasks.md` must include a `### Show & Tell` subsection. Expand the outline from `plan.md` with specific executable steps:

- Terminal commands to run (with expected output)
- Browser URLs to navigate (if applicable)
- API calls to execute (if applicable)
- Screenshots or expected visual state (described)

These steps will be executed during implementation to verify each phase is complete.

**Format example:**

````markdown
### Show & Tell

```bash
# Start the development server
make run

# Expected: Server running at http://localhost:3000
```

- Navigate to <http://localhost:3000/dashboard>
- Verify the analytics widget displays sample data
````

## Tasks Completion Checklist (Mandatory)

Before marking `tasks.md` as complete, verify:

- [ ] All phases and user stories from `plan.md` are covered
- [ ] There is a task for each repository-template capability that was planned to be implemented using the skill at [.github/skills/repository-template/SKILL.md](/.github/skills/repository-template/SKILL.md)
- [ ] TDD sequencing is applied: Red (write failing test), Green (implement to pass), Refactor
- [ ] Test tasks are listed before their corresponding implementation tasks
- [ ] Each phase and user story ends with a task that runs `make lint` and `make test`
- [ ] Each phase and user story includes a `### Show & Tell` subsection with executable steps

---

> **Version**: 1.5.1
> **Last Amended**: 2026-01-21

Commit message:

feat(prompts): enhance Show & Tell requirements for GitHub Copilot execution

.specify/extensions/prompts/speckit.tasks.prompt.ext.md, after:

You **MUST** adhere to the following mandatory requirements when generating development tasks.

**Workflow context:**

- **Input:** `plan.md` (implementation plan)
- **Output:** `tasks.md` (actionable task list)
- **Next phase:** Implementation (`/speckit.implement`)

**Base requirements:** Follow all rules in [copilot-instructions.md](/.github/copilot-instructions.md), particularly:

- Repository Tooling
- Test-Driven Development
- Quality Gates

## Show & Tell Sections (Mandatory)

Each phase and user story in `tasks.md` must include a `Show & Tell` subsection. Expand the outline from `plan.md` with specific executable steps:

- Terminal commands to run (with expected output)
- Browser URLs to navigate (if applicable)
- API calls to execute (if applicable)
- Screenshots or expected visual state (described)

These steps will be executed during implementation to verify each phase is complete.

### GitHub Copilot Execution Requirement (Mandatory)

GitHub Copilot **MUST** execute every Show & Tell step during `/speckit.implement` and validate that the expected result is achieved.

- Do not allow placeholder or ambiguous steps
- Every step must include explicit pass/fail criteria
- If a step fails, update tasks and/or implementation, then re-run the step
- Do not mark a phase or user story complete until all Show & Tell steps pass

This requirement is non-optional and must not be skipped or missed.

**Format example:**

````markdown
### Show & Tell

```bash
# Start the development server
make run

# Expected: Server running at http://localhost:3000
```

- Navigate to <http://localhost:3000/dashboard>
- Verify the analytics widget displays sample data
````

## Tasks Completion Checklist (Mandatory)

Before marking `tasks.md` as complete, verify:

- [ ] All phases and user stories from `plan.md` are covered
- [ ] There is a task for each repository-template capability that was planned to be implemented using the skill at [.github/skills/repository-template/SKILL.md](/.github/skills/repository-template/SKILL.md)
- [ ] TDD sequencing is applied: Red (write failing test), Green (implement to pass), Refactor
- [ ] Test tasks are listed before their corresponding implementation tasks
- [ ] Each phase and user story ends with a task that runs `make lint` and `make test`
- [ ] Each phase and user story includes a `### Show & Tell` subsection with executable steps
- [ ] GitHub Copilot executes every Show & Tell step during implementation
- [ ] Every Show & Tell step has explicit expected output/state and clear pass/fail criteria
- [ ] No phase or user story is marked complete if any Show & Tell step has not passed

---

> **Version**: 1.5.2
> **Last Amended**: 2026-02-20
